Why not use digital technology to preserve these older materials and avoid fighting with people about copyright?
So it was a natural for preservation to get involved in digital technology because it allowed us to pursue the digitization of printed materials without having to worry about copyright.
because we're dealing with all the materials.
We're dealing with all the material-related materials.
So it was a real good match at the beginning.
And public domain materials and manuscript materials that you own, so there's no conflict here with any... Right, right.
So, you know, that was part of the reason why it came through preservation.
Moreover, because preservation for many, many years as a field has been very much concerned with...
reformatting materials through microfilm, basically trying to save stuff through microfilm.
And microfilm is not that different.
Basically what you're doing is microfilming, taking a picture of something, and then making a copy of the film, or numerous copies of the film, and sending it to different people.
So it's a much more cumbersome book.
I'm sorry, go ahead.
I love this.
I need books.
Are these postcards?
Oh, yeah, yeah.
Can I have one?
Yeah, sure.
Yeah, a couple of them.
Oh, I love these things.
May I?
Yeah, sure.
This was actually a competition that we held here in the library.
The university, the kids did these, gave a prize for the, oh, that was the winning prize.
to stop kids bringing pizzas and all the stuff into the library.
But to get back to a comparison between yourself and Stanford, and I'm not trying to put you in the position to make you an apologist or one thing or the other, but it does come to mind where you say that preservation is the controlling department here.
Out there, that may be the case where they're interested in preservation, but I seem to see a
a focus out there of doing new stuff online.
I mean, they even publish books—publish them online without ever even putting them on paper.
Well, this has been happening here, too.
But clearly— That's our preservation.
That's our academic departments.
Stanford's approach has been to develop outside of
I mean, there's a lot of development outside of the library.
Correct.
They even have their own publishing unit.
Right.
Wired on or something like that, whatever it is.
But I'm sorry to interrupt.
Yes, go ahead.
I think our preservation program has probably been perhaps more powerful, more influential.
And so we've been able to sort of carry the way through.
more than other people have here.
One of the realities about library and archive preservation, wherever it happens, is that it's very heavily dependent on outside funding, writing grant proposals in competition with other institutions and getting money to do the work.
And the reality of certainly research and development on digital imaging technology is that you've got to get money from outside to do it.
So we have a history of doing that.
In fact, over the last few years, this department alone has raised something like $6.25 million for preservation.
And some of that's for... Okay.
Some of that is for... Some of that is for digital technology.
Some of that is for conservation.
Some of that is for microphone.
Anything we haven't covered that you think we...
I don't think so.
If there's anything that comes up that you think of, I can always, you know, just give me, let me just give you my card.
I've got a good mail address.
Thank you for talking to the University Library.
You can just, for the sake of my tape, say your name.
Yes, I'm Sarah Thomas, the Carl A. Kroc University Librarian.
At Cornell.
At Cornell University University.
The Cornell University Library, which is symbolic of the fact that although we have 18 to 19 different libraries here on campus, we are supposed to be one system.
And there's a division, actually, between the endowed libraries, the private libraries, and the statutory libraries, that makes that somewhat challenging to be
part of a single system when there are people who have different budgets and report to deans rather than to the university librarian.
And I mention this because I think it's very relevant when we come to the digital library, because while it's entirely possible, it has been in the past, to be pretty independent
one library to another on campus, one unit library.
Now that we're entering the digital arena, we really have to look, just as we're looking at interoperability between collections nationally and internationally, well, we have that same challenge locally.
How are we formatting our materials?
What's the interface?
Who does what?
And so it raises a number of interesting management questions that then come to play within this university library context.
Now you have, I guess, something in the name of seven million books?
Five point eight, we're going to be crossing into six million in the spring.
Okay, and many, many millions of pages of manuscript, I guess.
I believe you're, what, the tenth largest library system in the United States.
Well, this is interesting, isn't it?
This is quite an assignment that you have here.
Do you have a concept of, you know, you have this huge system at a very prestigious university that is kind of wired, I mean, really at the forefront of all this digital technology and application, and yet you have a marvelous collection of books.
and you are scanning selected rare books.
Do you have a focus of how this all works together as we approach it?
I don't know if that's a question or not.
I'm asking you a comment, I guess.
Yeah, I'd have to say that it's evolving, in part because I've only been here a little over two months.
And I'm still getting acquainted with the staff and with the collections, actually.
Cornell has, as you've alluded to, a very rich, if recent, history, but it stretches back a number of years of involvement with digital initiatives.
Stuart Lynn was a catalyst for that.
He's now out in Berkeley when he was head of the computer center here.
Through Stuart's initiative, I think there were a lot of—he got people involved in exploring and taking risks, and so that's a way that the early digital projects began, whether it's
the math library project with, I'm going to say Xerox.
I think it's C-SPIN Kodak.
Well, we did some cooperation with Kodak, too.
But at any rate, we'd need some fact checking on that.
But partnerships with corporations looking into the viability of scanning materials and creating
digital collections around a theme, the Making of America project, which is subsequent where we've been looking at copyright materials, materials out of copyright from 1850 to 1920, about in that time span, looking at American resources, primarily.
That project, which has been cooperative with the University of Michigan,
has gone on to be, there will be a new phase, Making of America II, Roman II, and that is about to be adopted by the National Digital Library Federation as a sort of test bed for the abstract ideas that the National Digital Library Federation has been considering over the past year and a half.
And those are issues of interoperability and
metadata, selection, access, economic models as well.
Because all of a sudden, as we make this shift from ownership to access that everybody talks about, well, someone has to own the materials in order for everybody else to access them.
If we're doing it cooperatively,
Is it all quid pro quo?
What happens when one person invests, or one institution invests more, and others enjoy that investment?
Shouldn't there be some kind of compensation?
And so we're struggling... Details to be resolved, to be sure.
...with that, and some of it touches librarians' fundamental values of...
What should be made available?
Information should be made available freely to all.
The selection issues that we're grappling with that Ross Atkinson will speak to you in much more detail in the next half hour.
But of all the materials we have, if we have six million volumes, it's unthinkable that we can afford
to digitize all those materials.
Some people, some administration people or other people think that we could just digitize everything and throw them away and not have to have a library.
What is intrinsically special in the character of a library that goes beyond just the content that's in it?
What about the interface?
What's the value that librarians add to this material?
Do you have an opinion on that?
I think librarians are very critical to the success of digital library.
It's not going to be just all an information broker model, a commercial model, but that there is a real
Librarians play a number of important roles, first of all in selecting material, although librarians often declare that they are neutral, that they don't, when they're handing over information to people.
Selecting materials to be acquired or to be digitized?
Maybe it's on a spectrum.
First of all, there's a whole bunch of stuff that's published in the world.
And we only acquire a fraction of that.
You could say that that's a financial limitation, but in fact some of it is not perceived to be as useful or as valuable in terms of research.
But as a university, generally speaking, you try to support the curriculum in a broad way.
Right.
But constantly there we are making choices.
this volume over that volume, this author over that author.
Then we'll be applying, presumably, some of those same selection criteria to digital materials.
What do we want to acquire in native digital form?
What do we want somebody else to maintain?
What do we want to invest in?
How does that relate to our curriculum and research?
So there's that selection component that I think is extremely valuable.
And I think librarians have underplayed perhaps the value of their, not the bibliographic people, not the selectors, but when we describe a quality library, I think that we need to
articulate the intelligence and the care that goes into growing that library and pruning that library appropriately.
So I think that's an important factor.
Then, although catalogers have often had a very bad rap in terms of holding things up, being obstacles,
being rule-bound in a way that is not progressive.
Of course, now you can tell I came out of cataloging.
In fact, I think that the catalogers, the same skills that are involved in organization, description, and analysis in cataloging need to be applied to the whole of electronic resources.
I see some opportunities for us in organizing electronic materials so that they're more useful than, say, some of the automated approaches that are available on Yahoo or InfoSeek or something like that, that that's great for the kind of casual user, or maybe even for the expert user, but what about those people in between who just kind of stumble around and...
aren't really sure that they're finding everything there is or what they need.
And so I think that we have a role to play in helping people.
We take our 100 years of experience or 200 years of experience to organizing materials and say, this is what we found useful in the print world.
What of this do we think applies in a new word where you have
word-by-word access and string searching.
And so it's going to be some moderation.
It's not going to be taking the Anglo-American cataloging rules, God forbid, and applying this to everything on the web.
And I think that there are possibilities for us in terms of, I describe it as a sort of tiered access.
You've got that great unwashed material out there on the Internet that your
Software can help you search and organize.
Then authors may choose to present either abstracts or descriptions of the keywords for their creations.
Then librarians could come along and take a subset of those materials.
What they're especially good at is linking things, where the intellectual
the intellect can do what the computer can't do as much as we keep looking for savings in artificial intelligence.
And then I see other possible connections.
Why not have all the book reviews for your book appended so that people want to see that?
And maybe you'd even have still another area, which is kind of the chat room approach, where people who read your book
commented on it.
I just heard a very interesting talk by Stan Chiodaro from Penn.
He's the provost at the University of Pennsylvania.
He's a medievalist, and he said he studied medieval canon law.
He was making an analogy between medieval writing and writing on the internet, that you started out with a text, and then it was glossed by the various monks or the readers
And so you had all these commentaries running along the line.
And what was important was not so much the person who wrote the first, but it was the same sort of interactive developmental shaping of knowledge and understanding that we have now with some of the research that's shared on the Internet.
So you see that.
Yeah.
And so I think that that's... What's his name again?
Stanley Chowdera.
It's C.H.
I've got to write it down.
O-D-O-R-O-W.
I think that's it.
He's the provost at Penn.
He's a medievalist.
And he got his Ph.D.
from Cornell.
That's very great.
And he just gave a talk at the Association of Research Libraries in Washington, which is where I heard him.
Okay, he discussed this.
And he laid out this and a number of very interesting ideas.
So they might even have a text of this speech, if I could look at it.
That's right.
Yeah, Association of Research Libraries.
Oh, that sounds good.
Yeah.
I'm just looking for all kinds of things like this.
Excuse me.
I'm losing my voice.
I'm sorry, I lost my... This whole, this idea of selectivity, because Cornell also is doing, is scanning a lot of your special collections.
And I'm not, I don't mean just books.
Cornell manuscripts, Ezra Cornell letters.
Yeah.
And that's kind of unusual.
Maybe L.C.
is doing some of that to some degree.
But as John was just saying, you know, what happens if a scholar at some point is doing a
some work on Lincoln, and all that is available is what has been pre-selected in terms of, you know, it's almost like there's a hand, an invasive hand working its way into the role of scholarship.
I don't know, I'm just thinking out loud.
Do you see anything?
Yeah, well, I mean, I think one of the great advantages of digital collections is that
If you look at manuscript materials, first of all, it introduces primary source material to a much wider number of people, that you have the opportunity to take materials that are both rare and often locked away, although here at Cornell we make a practice of involving our students and faculty with these materials,
But you make them much more accessible.
Which is unusual, by the way.
I have to say, very rarely do you see undergraduates encouraged to go to these special collections.
Mark Dimunation will say, oh, you should see them when they want to see the Gettysburg Address.
And we bring out the Gettysburg Address.
They'll bring it to a talk, to a demonstration.
And I think that's wonderful.
Because there's nothing like touching the whole thing.
It's all inspiring.
copy books from Ulysses.
You sort of say, wow, this is Ulysses here.
I think that does as much to inspire people.
It makes a connection between themselves creating something and this person writing something.
You look at letters differently.
You look at diaries differently.
You look at business records differently when you see that they can become part of the archival material.
And then for people, I think that whether you're a student, a high school student, or a college student, or a researcher, or just JQ citizen, when you suddenly can begin to call up some of this material and read it firsthand, you can see the image of the original, so you see whether this person had neat handwriting or messy handwriting, and then you have
ideally a transcription with a word-for-word access, and so you might hit that on a keyword.
It's really an opportunity to provide a sort of unbiased approach to learning, where people are reading the originals possibly for the first time.
Then, if you have the secondary material there,
either through citations to books or through scanned material, then people can begin to dip into that and get some analysis.
But they've already had a chance to formulate.
Often I think we work from secondary and tertiary sources and go back to the primary,
But this seems to me to be an opportunity to introduce that on a level footing, at least.
And I think people react positively to that.
What's your position on acquisitions, particularly in special collections?
Any attitude on that?
Are you acquiring?
I'm told that we are acquiring at a pretty heavy clip because then there are murmurs about storage of materials.
And, of course, when you have these artifactual materials that are themselves intrinsically interesting just to look at the paper and the ink and everything, you don't toss them out after.
It's not like some Blue Cross Blue Shield record where you feel perfectly
happy throwing it out, or IRS even, I suppose, if you had it on disk.
These things you want to keep for all time.
We are still selective.
We're not a vacuum cleaner gobbling things up.
We're looking for materials that either supplement things that we already have in our collection, so we have a big anti-slavery thing.
collection, we would look at that.
We have French Revolution pamphlets and other materials relating to the French Revolution.
Mark tells me it's the largest collection outside of Paris.
So, you know, we would try to acquire something like that.
Things that are special to Cornell history, we would look at, as well as areas to fill in gaps
where we are not as strong, so we have a potential donor of medieval manuscripts, and that's an area where we haven't had a collection as strong as this one that would be coming to us.
And it's certainly, you know, targets of opportunity if you have a nice medieval manuscript collection, you certainly want to have it.
Yeah.
Are there any areas that you feel I should think of anything?
Again, I placed myself at Mark's mercy coming out here, and he did a wonderful job putting together this schedule.
You'll have to forgive me, I got up at 5.30 this morning for the drive out.
I'd love to call you at some point and follow up.
Do you have a card?
Oh, yes, sure.
I thought I'd want a bunch of mine, and I saw one.
If you don't mind, that'd be great.
What I'll do is actually transcribe the tape.
Are you familiar?
You must be familiar, but do you have any comment on this Cambodia project that fascinates me?
I mean, I really know.
almost nothing about it.
I'll have to, you know, get myself informed on it, actually.
Well, I kind of came into it while pursuing the Sarajevo situation where, you know, as part of the ethnic cleansing madness over there, they destroyed the National Library and its collections.
And John Linseth said, well, we should go to Cornell and see what they've done with Cambodia.
I mean, if it's true that, you know, most of their materials were destroyed and that
By this wonderful circumstance, you had the replicative records here that you were able to re-seed the National Collection.
That's quite an interesting story.
Oh, yes.
It's a great one, actually.
And I just can't think of any other parallels to that.
I know they're trying desperately to get things for the Library of Terry Abel and the number of successes they've had here, particularly unique things.
You know, we're a scholar, might have had a microfilm of something that was destroyed.
You know, we can count them on one hand.
But, you know, when I'm considering libraries and books of the future, everything isn't, you know, digital and rosy.
I mean, we still have it within ourselves to commit acts of madness, I guess.
Yeah, yeah.
And destroyed books and people.
Well, the article, the Nicholson-Baker article in The New Yorker recently on the San Francisco public and the weeding of the collection.
I was out there.
In fact, I tried to reach him while I was out there last month, and I'm glad I didn't, because now that was quite a waging thing that I put this on the table.
And one of the things that, when Stanford is doing that,
I've had proposals as I've been going around making my get-acquainted visits to various libraries and schools here that, well, we might want to look into electronic deposit of dissertations, for example, that both from the student's perspective it might be cheaper to have, they already have word-processed their dissertation
And so then the fact that they have to have so many bound copies on acid-free paper and whatever, maybe they would want to move away from that.
It would be a cost savings to the students.
And at the same time, it would solve some of the library's storage problems for these materials.
So that's one area that I think people are looking into.
Do you really need a hard copy of that, for instance?
I can see it.
Somebody was saying the Encyclopedia Britannica.
No sooner is the OED.
No sooner is that published and done does it cost $1,600, but it's essentially obsolete.
There were new words being added.
There were new entries.
That's ideal for a computer.
You can constantly revise it and update it.
I can see that.
As Keller was saying, some of these
These are books that are probably at best published in editions of 600 copies of scientific journals or whatever.
They cost a fortune to buy, and they're obsolete the day they come out.
Maybe these things are better accessed online.
If you want to download it and print it,
Do it on demand.
Yeah, and pay a fee.
And those printers get better as well, so that you have—you're not dealing with some crummy old dot matrix printer, but you've got some high-speed color, highly accurate printers.
They actually punched up some of these cellular things in brilliant, brilliant color.
I mean, it was printed out, and it was quite selectively printed for what you wanted.
Right.
You know, you have to be a fool to say this doesn't have its applications.
Yeah, so there's that.
And then other suggestions I've had are some of the smaller libraries.
There's a couple that are, I don't know, 15,000 volumes or something.
They're saying, well, you know, why don't we just digitize everything that's not rare in this collection?
Oh, I hope that doesn't matter.
And why don't we, you know, make ourselves the electronic resource in the world for this?
You've read this?
I have, from someone here.
You mean that's been suggested for this university?
For a library on this university.
What I didn't say to the person talking to me was, well, of course there are a lot of copyright considerations that we have to get into.
I think people, they seize an idea, they get a little carried away with this idea, and so they see how it could solve their problem.
space problem or something on that order, and so it becomes a panacea.
Actually, of course, the issues are a lot more subtle to that.
I mean, you have the sort of social and tactile interactions that people have with libraries.
That tends to distill everything about a library down to information.
rather than any emphasis on the knowledge part.
Which is the next level.
And what it does to have real librarians in there.
I'm not quite so old-fashioned.
In fact, I'm advocating strongly that we change and rethink what we're doing.
But I love books just by themselves.
I suppose you'd care to tell me which library that was that wanted to...
I'll turn the machine now.
I'm sorry.
You listened to the Nestle proposal.
Yeah, and I got excited about it because it was a small discipline.
Which is hotel management.
Hotel management, hospitality, literature of hospitality, and I thought it would be an excellent test case of
what it would be like to be a totally electronic library and to be a world resource.
Because if you think about it, Marriott doesn't want to maintain its own library.
Why not just get this stuff?
I don't know much about hospitality, so I don't know whether there are enduring truths or whether there's a...
Nouvelle Cuisine fad every four years or something like that.
The question of, could it be done?
What were the problems in doing it?
What were the copyright issues?
How did you interrelate with the publishers?
Could one library do it all itself, or must it have collaboration and be shared by three or four of the best ones?
And so it's an intriguing idea to consider, but I guess it just seems a little too simple to me to think, well, how would we do that?
And yet sometimes when I've worked with developing countries and they've wanted to
their idea of heaven is to have a lot of paper journals.
And you know how expensive it is and the problems they have in maintaining appropriate conditions in some climates and things like that.
Then you sort of say, geez, wouldn't it be nice if they could leapfrog over all the problems we're having and go electronic for some of these materials.
But they're sort of...
still trying to catch up to a stage that we were, you know, maybe when they were doing their graduate training or whatever, that was what impressed them.
And so sometimes it's hard to do that.
And we're bound by the ties that people have.
And so you have to ask yourself when you're running a library like this, gosh, well, if I had $30 million
Brighton, which might be our budget now, $25 to $30 million, to set up something de novo for the Cornell campus, how would I spend that money?
It would probably be very different from the way we're configured now.
And so we have traditions.
Some of those traditions are important to the fabric of the campus.
They're very meaningful, quite independent of the service they provide.
And then there are traditions of service which have been held for a long time and which are still valuable to carry forward.
But there are probably other things which we could jettison and replace with something else, except for the fact that there's always someone out there
who clings to that particular service.
So you have an open mind to this, or has this been pretty much resolved that that's not what they're going to do with Nestle?
Oh, it's still very much a gleam in somebody's eye.
That's right, yeah.
I mean, we haven't embarked on any planning to do this.
It's one idea of many that have been floated.
And how many volumes do they have?
I think they have 15,000.
Interesting.
And, of course, you could say hotel management, you know.
I mean, then others would say, well, now today, hotel management, tomorrow.
Tomorrow is Shakespeare, you know.
Tomorrow is Shakespeare, that's right.
That's right, you know.
I mean, people would say that.
And, you know, I straddle the fence of somebody who's an administrator.
who is always looking at the cost-effective ways to do things and trying to be in a leadership position where I have to keep my eyes five to ten years out.
And then there are the people down there in the front lines who have to do the job for today.
And so I've come out of that world.
I still have a great allegiance to that world.
But at the same time, I feel it's my responsibility to be...
evaluating these ideas that come up.
What's practical and what's harebrained?
Sure, that's the job.
So what would you do if you had $30 million?
That's for another time.
You have to talk to Ron.
I may look tired, but I feel like you can question it, too.
Yeah, yeah.
Should we put on that one?
Yeah, let's do that.
So, if you'd kindly, just for the tape, just identify yourself at the front of the tape.
Cameron Ross Atkinson?
Yes, sir.
Associate University of Auburn at Cornell.
Good.
And you've been here how long, sir?
I've...
I've been here for eight years.
Before that I was at Iowa, and before that I was at Northwestern.
Were you at Iowa when the Zathmari Collection came?
Oh, yes, sure.
That's in my book.
Oh, really?
Oh, yeah.
I heard he just died.
He died about three weeks ago.
Yeah.
Gee, that's... And I was supposed to go out and say, I have my plane ticket.
I was going out to see him in Chicago next two weeks.
Oh, gee, that's too bad.
Yeah.
If you have a chance to see my book, I write about him.
I'll look at it.
Okay, I'll have to look.
Well, of course, the Iowa Zahmari collection.
I wrote about Steven Blumberg, you know, the book Thief.
Yes, that's right.
I wrote a definitive chapter on him.
It's a fun book, I'd say.
It's a lot of fun.
So, I guess you've been here while this whole digital revolution has been kind of coming in.
Sure.
What aspects of that interests you?
All of it.
Well, okay.
Let's have an entry point.
Why don't you give me an overview of Cornell's role here, what Cornell's attitude is?
How is it that this is recognized as one of the very top leading institutions?
Well, I mean, I think we've done a number of things.
There are several institutions in the country that
have done some experimentation and have tried to move that into production.
Our main effort has been in the area, I think, of digitizing paper materials, which is probably what would be of more interest to you, as opposed to, I mean, there are materials that begin their lives in electronic form, and there are materials that are digitized, obviously, that begin their lives in paper.
And the real challenge
It's a whole new form of collection building, in a sense, and it is to figure out, of all the materials that are in paper form, which ones we want to digitize, which ones do we want to make, in a sense, contemporary or competitive with digital materials, with materials that begin their lives in digital form.
And it's quite a—it's a whole new area that nobody's really done much work in yet.
The selection, how do you decide what's going to be preserved and what isn't?
I mean, there are two levels of that.
I mean, there's a higher level in which a certain amount of that depends on funding.
I mean, large amounts of preservation in the country are done through grants, large programs.
And what you can get grant funded is what you preserve.
And normally what you can get grant funded are your real strong collections.
So what we've got are individual real strong collections around the country that are preserved.
But they're not comprehensive.
I mean, they're strong, but they're not comprehensive.
So you can get money for that.
You can't get money for your day-to-day things.
And those we have to take out of our regular budget.
And a certain amount of that gets done.
But most of that preservation has been microformed.
I mean, we're just now moving into the digital side of things.
And we can't get much money for that yet, because the funding agencies don't feel it's a stable enough medium yet.
There's no standards.
They can't say, well, I'll give you this money if you do these things, because those things haven't been determined yet.
We don't know about archiving digital material yet.
We don't know if we're going to have it next year, let alone in 100 years.
So there's all that work that still has to be done.
And that's what a lot of libraries are working on right now.
You know, you talk about paper.
Let's face it, you're absolutely right.
Things on paper have survived for centuries, haven't they?
Printed books.
And if they're treated properly, and you've got one of the finest preservation units here anywhere, they can last for another 500 or 1,000 years.
So it has to be demonstrated
that these items on paper are very fragile and are better preserved on microchips, which are only 20 years old.
Right, that's right.
I mean, the advantage is that if we can shift them to electronic form, we can move them around a lot better.
We can make them a lot more accessible to a lot more people.
The standard argument for special collections is, of course, you take pressure off of the paper materials.
I'm sure Tom Hickerson will tell you that, for manuscripts or anything else.
And you can store them, if they're in electronic form, increasingly more cheaply.
I mean, we add two-and-a-half or three miles of shoving a year in this library.
And we're just a normal research library.
I mean, that's year after year after year after year.
And major research libraries do that.
And there's coming a point here where that really can't go on for too much longer.
We're running out of landscapes.
You actually add two and a half to three miles of shelves?
We don't add the shelves.
We add that many books that fill those shelves.
And so, I mean, we don't do that every year.
But, I mean, we have to have enough shelves every year.
to do that, if I'm making sense.
I mean, there's got to be— Oh, so there must be the accessioning steps for that.
We don't do that much.
I mean, we're running out of shelf space.
When we build extra shelves, we do compact shelving and so forth.
But the point—the trustees have now come back and have told us, no more on Central.
Beyond the year 2000— No more what?
No more shelves on Central campus.
Beyond the year 2000,
Five million volumes on central campus is enough.
If you want any more, you're going to build it out in the orchard, and we're building a storage facility.
And you're pointing to it.
What's called the orchard?
The orchard, off-site, off of the campus.
Is that what it's called?
Do you own a former orchard?
Yeah, yeah.
It's not a former orchard.
It is an orchard.
It's an apple orchard.
It's a working orchard.
That's right.
So that's where we're now building an off-site facility out there.
See, I visited the Harvard Department.
Oh, yes.
That's exactly the same.
I live about 10 miles from here.
Oh, yeah.
That's typical.
I spent a day there.
I guess that's the Model 1.
That's right.
Yeah.
And boy, what a thing that is.
Each one of these little units can hold two and a half million books.
Yeah, it's fantastic.
And they can build 20 of these.
They could, but they're unbrowsable.
In other words, you've got to know what you want before you get it.
I mean, they're not in call, you can't pull a thing out and look at it.
Oh, no, and in fact, he told me, the guy told me, he said, if I had the Gutenberg Bible, it would have a barcode on it.
Yeah, I wouldn't know, nobody would know what's in that box.
That's right.
And the letters come in that morning,
They're punched up on the computer, and the guy goes out on the forklift, and they just pick him up by number.
The computer tells him where to go and get them in order, and then they go into Boston or Cambridge, and that's that.
So the scholar has to know, I want that book and that book and that book.
Oh, no, there's absolutely no browsing.
Right, right.
And so we've lost, I mean, we're going to lose that ability.
I mean, for people to go into stacks and browse around and see everything, there's just not enough stack space left.
And it's going to hurt historians more than any place else.
anyone else.
So I think there's a sense that maybe if we digitize more of this material, we'll get back some of that browsing capability that we're going to lose by sticking that paper offside.
So how do you stand on this issue?
Long term.
I mean, right now we're stuck in that time between having enough of electronic material that can be browsed and having enough space for the paper material.
So somehow we've got to get to that transition.
Well, on the question of, you know, five million books, that's it.
And then we're going, and then anything added after that has to be on electronic.
Well, no, it's got to be off-site.
Anything beyond that has to be off-site.
So you have 24 hours to bring it in.
That's right.
That's the turnover they have at Harvard.
Yeah, yeah.
Oh, okay.
And they're much further away.
They don't have an Apple.
They figure, we can do it within 24 hours.
If you want it today, you've got to pay us $100.
I mean, money has to change from one account to another.
They'll do it.
But they promise it will be there within 24 hours.
But these are largely dead books that are out there, too.
Dead books.
Well, there is no such thing as a dead book at Harvard, number one, in that they don't deaccession.
But on the other hand, they put stuff out there that there's no call for.
And they'll be sure that there's no call for by putting it out there in a way.
However, the computer will tell them if an item is called for, if there's a frequency of demand, then they'll reconsider its location and it goes back.
So, I mean, I think there's a system in place that allows for that.
One of the problems we have is that the catalog is online, as you know.
But we haven't quite converted all of those cards.
And the kinds of cards we haven't converted are the low-use items.
And those are precisely the kinds of things we need to send off-site.
So when we send it off-site, we convert the cards
We put the cards in the catalog, and that increases the use of those same materials that we're sending off-site.
In other words, by sending them off-site, we're increasing the use because we have to make the records more accessible.
It's a problem.
Are these for you exciting times to be a librarian, or frustrating times?
Well, obviously it's going to be both, but I mean, the decisions we're making now are going to have an effect on what people have available, on what people know long-term.
I mean, people will use what we provide them in the future, and they won't use what we don't.
And we're making all kinds of decisions now, we have to, that are going to affect what people will have access to in the future.
Do you have any kind of a visceral feeling for the printed book?
A visceral feeling?
Well, I mean, you know, as a bibliophile, can you be moved by handling a book
in a way that you can never be moved by grabbing a text off a screen.
I think it's a different kind of experience.
I mean, you can also be moved in another way by grabbing a text off a screen.
I mean, there are other things that the screen can do that the book can't do.
But there is a... Now, the question is whether that's a generational thing.
In other words, it's because we've grown up with these and you get used to having things in your hand and relating to them.
and the next generation won't deal with that or not.
I don't know.
Also, these things are not very convenient.
I mean, I'm assuming in 20 years that something will... that you'll be able to read more easily off one of these things.
Yeah.
You know a single person?
Can you name me a person who has read a novel, first page to last off a computer?
No.
And in a way, that's not what they're for.
They're for storage and for transmission.
And then you print from them.
I mean, many people have said if you were smart at the beginning of the electronic revolution, you would have invested in paper.
Because, I mean, we have more paper now.
There's more paper production than, I think, than ever before.
I mean, we've got it everywhere.
Because you need to print it out.
That's right.
There has been no cut down.
Quite the opposite, I think.
It's created more paper.
So it's just a matter of sort of self-on-demand publication.
I mean, I know when I'm home and I'm
browsing stuff.
And, you know, I pay a flat rate, so I'm not paying extra time.
And I see something, bang!
I don't fool around.
I read it.
I print it out.
Sure.
And I'll put it in a file, and I'll spend four hours at night just printing stuff off the computer.
Do you read what you printed out?
Oh, it's research material from, you know, I'll be scrolling.
I don't have time to read every San Francisco Chronicle article on the San Francisco Library, but I'm able to find them.
And, you know, fine, print it out, but let's get the material today and then let's read what we have and underline it, you know, and extract the information that's useful to me as a writer tomorrow.
I mean, people photocopy stuff in the same way, I think, in the library.
And that's how I photocopied the research from my book.
I did all of my reading at Harvard there.
And I couldn't, you know, my ticket was for reading up there.
I couldn't take the stuff home.
I copied like crazy.
I'd go in with $40.25.
You don't have time to read there.
You're doing 15, 20 books.
You just print these pertinent chapters, and then you take them home.
So that's just another aspect of that, I guess, altogether.
I think what we're wondering about in libraries is where does the library
I mean, what's the long-term future of the library?
Do you need a library when you can do that kind of thing?
You can build your own collection, in a sense.
I mean, you're printing things off and creating your own collection.
You're doing your own selection.
I mean, do you need a library between you and that information with a good network, long-term?
As a researcher, probably not.
Assuming everything's available.
And it may be too expensive— Now, that's a bold assumption.
Yeah, to make everything available.
That just may not be cost-effective.
I mean, you've got six million books here, 75 million pages of manuscript.
Not in my lifetime, is that all that stuff going to be available online?
You know, maybe not in anybody's lifetime.
No, but that may mean that that paper material is read less and less, and that the real action shifts to what's in electronic form.
and it will become increasingly expensive to maintain large paper collections.
So Cardale was pretty firmly committed, then, to making this work by the year 2000, is that right?
All we're committed to is not to have any more books on Central Campus by the year 2000.
I mean, we'll move those books off-campus.
So no decisions that we made beyond that?
No, no.
But you can tell me pretty much for sure is that within four years there will be no more than five million books on the central campus.
That's it.
That's right.
As far as they're going to be digitized and this and that.
Yeah, I expect most of them are going to be in the Apple Orchard Inn in a storage facility like the Harvard one.
But we've had to explain.
The trustees have asked for a lot of explanations as to why do we need all these books.
More and more people are asking that.
Why do you have to have six million volumes?
What's your answer?
Well, it's not easy.
Research requires it.
History requires it.
Why the country has to have this many items is not
is not hard to answer.
Why do we have to have it here?
And sort of the same ones are in Harvard and sort of the same ones are in here.
Well, there's an overlap between one of the ten largest libraries in the United States.
Okay, but those ten largest libraries probably have a certain amount of overlap.
Probably have a tremendous amount.
Okay, do we need ten copies in those ten different libraries?
Or do we...
You don't need ten copies in all those different libraries assuming that a digitized copy is available here.
But if there's only one copy and that's out at Palo Alto, that's a pain in the butt if a student needs it today, isn't it?
It is.
Unless we develop a form to— That's defeating the whole purpose of printing, which was to duplicate copies, when you think about it.
Right.
Unless we can digitize on demand somehow, which would be an enormous service and an enormous cost.
I mean, we're going to have large paper libraries for some time.
And I'll tell you, the items that are going to survive, if you're a paper person, if the material is before the machine press period, if the material is up to 1800, I feel strongly, it's fairly clear.
that those are going to be considered artifacts.
Those aren't going anyplace.
I mean, everybody's going to save those things.
Every library that has one is going to save it.
It's the materials after 1800.
1800?
I would say, yeah, when the machine press starts.
I mean, when you—and suddenly there's this flood of materials that are out there, and I think those are—what we're going to lose are materials between 1800 and 2000.
Lose in terms of the paper object, in terms of the artifacts.
Yeah, well— Lose forever.
Yeah, lose forever.
I mean, I think there will be a certain amount of that material that's going to be lost forever.
Doesn't that concern you as a librarian?
It does.
It does on the one hand.
It concerns me.
On the other hand, we've never saved everything.
I mean, what concerns me more is having some kind of method that's effective that will allow us to ensure that the most important things are retained.
That you've got a scale of values that will allow us to
to retain those.
Now, I was just having a conversation with our history bibliographer here, and he suggested that he would be happier if we lost material by serendipity than if we lost material by specific system of weeding.
Well, that almost suggests, you know, a form of cultural fascism, if somebody's going to say this survives and this doesn't.
I go with the serendipity.
Okay, okay.
That's almost the process of natural selection, you know.
Okay, and I can see what, but that's a product of, I mean, that's a value of the time.
If I went back to antiquity, how many plays of Aeschylus do we have?
We have eight plays.
Well, I can even, you know, go, Melville was detested in his lifetime.
If what you're suggesting happens, then Moby Dick would have disappeared.
It would have, and we're lucky it didn't.
But a lot of stuff has disappeared because places, I mean, every era saves what it thinks is important because you can't save everything.
But then people are discovered in later ages.
They are.
But the thing is, assuming that you can't save everything, and you can't save every graphic utterance, I mean, there's got to be some...
You can't, no.
I agree.
I was taking the train.
I'm from New York, you know, and only I drive, and I'm writing in my notebook about this, and I'm looking at the graffiti out there.
I said, is all this worth preserving?
This is writing.
Somebody's writing this.
Somebody's defacing, actually, violating it.
Should we, because it's written, should we preserve it, or should we go clean it off and put the kid's ass in jail if we catch him doing it, you know?
So I'm agreeing with you, I guess, to a degree.
Everything isn't worth it.
preserving it.
So, I mean, libraries really have to figure out that they've always had that responsibility of what's going to make it through.
So it is historic in that regard.
They have, and they've always based those decisions on cultural values, and our values now are relativistic.
So we're willing to say, well, everything is sort of of equal value, so let's just save things by chance.
That's sort of serendipity.
I mean, it's a product of our times.
Just as there was a time, you know, a thousand years ago when
If it was non-Christian or whatever, you wouldn't save it.
Yeah, that's right.
A historian is not a stenographer.
There is selectivity that has to be done, and I think the same skills have to be exercised on the living of the life of the library.
So my sense is what's at risk is materials between
you know, 1800 and 2000, where we've got this huge, just enormous amount of things that are sitting around.
And the paper is poorer at that time than before, obviously.
I think you're actually going to see a lot of books written on, you know, I mean, Stanford University Press is doing things like that.
Yeah, they are, yeah.
Where it's not even coming out of paper.
It's going to be
And you'll never see another Oxford English dictionary printed in paper.
And it's better, because the words, as soon as that thing hits the streets, there are ten words entering the language every day, whatever the number is.
you know, maybe it's better to look up a word of the Encyclopedia Britannica.
That's right.
It's constantly being updated, which is great in a way.
And it's less expensive to revise.
It is.
Historically, it's a problem.
And it's easier to access.
You can't go back and say what was known at this time.
Yeah.
Do I have to buy a whole Encyclopedia Britannica if I want to look up on Amadillo?
I mean, you know, let me just punch up the Amadillo for tonight, you know?
I think that's, you know what I'm saying?
Right.
I do know what you're saying, but...
The other point is, I mean, when there's a paper edition, they come out periodically, and you can save that edition, and you can say, this is what was known in 1970 about the Armadillo.
Okay, you can't do that anymore because it's constantly, you lose all of that history.
As a writer, there's no such thing as drafts and variant texts anymore.
You know, my book probably had 150 drafts.
I have no idea.
But the only draft I have is the one that went off to publish.
The final one.
printed when I ran it through the printer.
Yeah.
History will pay for this.
Our ability to do history, I think, will be affected.
And it probably still... I mean, the debate is not by any means concluded, I think.
Which debate?
You mean on... The general debate on this issue that we're talking about, just how this is going to
You think that electronics will win over that?
I think economically we won't have a lot of choice.
I think we'll have to make a number of compromises because it's just too expensive to do it otherwise.
I agree with you, but I also think that works of the imagination, novels, poetry, they will always be printed in books.
For so long as I went, I just can't imagine a work of art.
It is.
I think so, too.
It's just they may not be stored or moved around in books.
I mean, they may be stored in electronic form and sent down to you in electronic form, but they'll come out.
You'll still read it in paper form because that's the most convenient.
You think so?
Yeah, it's too expensive to send it through the mail, and it's too expensive to warehouse that.
I think it would...
But it still costs less to buy a book than it costs.
I mean, it costs $5 to digitize a page.
Yeah, well, yeah.
I mean, the word on the street is that's going down, you know, geometrically.
Is that right?
Now, I don't know if that's the case, but it's certainly a lot less expensive than it was a few years ago.
That's historic.
I mean, everything.
So at some point, it should be incredibly inexpensive to maintain this material.
But libraries will have to ensure that there's backup, there's archiving...
that we don't lose, that the software and hardware don't change so that you can no longer read the material.
I mean, all of that is a future of libraries, and we have to learn as much about that as we can.
You know what, I think I've had my half hour, and could you give me a card or something if I could get in touch?
Well, look, we just ran out.